[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>And I think many
people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Hi,
I'm George Noory,
and welcome to "Beyond Belief."
You know, since I
was a little boy,
I've been fascinated with
stories about a hollow Earth.
As a matter of fact, when I
first saw the movie, "Journey
to the Center of the Earth,"
with our dear friend,
Pat Boone, I mean I just
couldn't get enough.
I kept watching it
over and over again.
Could there really be life
like that inside the planet?
Well our next guest on
"Beyond Belief," of course,
is an author and physicist.
And he is one of the
experts of the possibility
of a hollow Earth.
Let's take a look.
>>BROOKS AGNEW: It is written.
Many are called,
but few are chosen.
I like to think of it
a little differently.
Many are called, but few choose.
I've been chosen to lead
the North Pole Inner-Earth
Expedition.
My name is Brooks Agnew.
And I choose to start here,
Mount Shasta, at 9,000 feet,
shrouded in the
mists of mystery,
to begin what may be the
greatest geological expedition
in the history of the world-- to
discover if the Earth is hollow
or not.
>>NOORY: And with us,
live, Brooks Agnew.
That's exciting, Brooks.
Welcome to "Beyond Belief."
>>AGNEW: Thank you very much.
Good to be here.
>>NOORY: Tell me
about Mount Shasta
and why you picked that spot.
>>AGNEW: Well, there
are a lot of legends
about where entrances into the
Earth might be, and one of them
was Shasta.
So I took several trips there.
On one, I had a guide.
And we went up to-- all over
the mountain, the places
that we could find
to see if there
were these legendary openings.
We didn't find any.
But it's a pretty
fascinating place.
There's a lot of legend,
Indian legend and local legend
about that mountain.
It's very, very mysterious.
>>NOORY: How big is
that area in that
you didn't find an
opening, but what
are the possibilities
that there is one there?
>>AGNEW: Well, there
are possibilities
that there are openings
into the mountain.
I didn't find one with the
guide that I went with.
But if I had more
time to go back,
probably would-- would
find them and explore them.
>>NOORY: Brooks, could
these possible openings
be all over the planet?
>>AGNEW: I think so.
I tried to chase them all down.
I went to Tibet and Mexico,
China, Japan-- Mammoth Cave,
Kentucky.
I tried to go chase down
all the legends everywhere,
where they existed, and get
film and take local testimony
and talk to the local
geologists to see
what they thought about it.
And it was a really,
really good experience,
the five or six years that
we traveled around the world.
The one thing we
never got to do,
though, was get above
that Arctic Circle.
That was a very,
very tough challenge.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
And, of course-- where was it
where Admiral Byrd apparently
flew right into the
center of the planet?
>>AGNEW: Yeah, in
1926, I think it was,
Admiral Byrd decided
to fly over the pole.
And he did so at
less than 3,000 feet,
which is why he is an aviation
hero and not a statistic.
>>NOORY: Yeah, exactly.
>>AGNEW: And just
took a lot of fuel
and came back with
observations that he
flew over lush, green
areas with unfrozen water
where none should have been.
No pictures, no evidence,
just that statement.
And that set the world on fire.
>>NOORY: And if you're
following that kind of terrain,
you're probably flying
into it, and you really
don't even know it, right?
You just.
>>AGNEW: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>AGNEW: That's the one thing.
If there is a
curvature that goes
into a depression in the
Earth or even an opening
into the Earth,
the aperture will
be so large you will not have
any perspective that you're
actually flying into something.
>>NOORY: What about oceans?
Would they go in there, too?
>>AGNEW: Oceans would
do that as well.
If the crust really did
have an aperture like that
and if it did exist, most likely
it would exist at the poles.
If the crust did thin
at a point like that,
the ocean would curve with
it, because the ocean just
sticks on the
crust with gravity.
It just moves around
with-- by the moon.
>>NOORY: How did we
even get these theories
that the planet could be hollow?
>>AGNEW: The ancients
had a lot of legend,
the Tibetans, the early
settlers of the Yucatan area.
The Popol Vuh talks
about life coming out
of the inside of the Earth.
The Egyptians talk about it.
So to have these
ancient legends,
these well-developed
dynasties that
believed that there was
some lifeforce, some way
of surviving on the
inside of the planet,
it was scientifically,
I think, maybe
irresponsible to
not investigate it.
>>NOORY: Now these
legends, do they
seem to be coming
from civilizations
all around the planet?
>>AGNEW: Yes.
>>NOORY: They do?
>>AGNEW: Yeah, it's
almost universal.
The Hopi Indians, to
Eskimos, to people
that live in Europe
and South America,
they all have the same legends.
It's sort of like
the flood legend.
It exists everywhere.
>>NOORY: How would
the planet have
formed with this kind
of hollowness to it?
>>AGNEW: Well that is a
really great question.
We sort of see, when
we look out into space,
different stages of
planetary development.
But man hasn't really
been around long enough
with telescopes to
actually see a planet form.
We think the way it happens
is with an accretion disc.
It's like a giant plate of
dust in space that's revolving.
And slowly it will
begin to coagulate
into planets and
then a central sun.
Sometimes the planets
will form very quickly,
and that means they're
spinning very, very quickly.
And they get lopsided.
And they'll throw piece
of themselves off,
and that'll be a moon.
Or they'll become
unstable, overheated,
and they'll explode and
become an asteroid belt.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>AGNEW: But sometimes they
just expand and cool, expand
and cool, expand and cool,
and they form planets.
Sometimes they're gas
giants, and sometimes they're
solid, like Earth is.
Earth happens to be
at the right distance
from the sun where water
can be liquid and not steam.
And it's conducive for
the enzymatic activity
we call life.
>>NOORY: The Goldilocks Zone.
>>AGNEW: Right.
>>NOORY: As we say.
Now, what about the core
that I hear so much about,
that the Earth
has a molten core.
If it's hollow, I'm
picturing like an empty hole.
That's not the case?
>>AGNEW: That's not
the case with Earth.
It could be the case
with other planets.
And the reason why is because
we have this very powerful,
multilayered magnetosphere
around the planet.
Early theories were that we had
some kind of molten convection
going on in the
center of the Earth,
that we lived on a
molten ball in space,
and we existed on tectonic
plates like corn flakes
in a bowl of milk.
That theory held for a
long time, all the while,
while I was in school.
But then we started
getting better and better
at hooking the seismographic
listening stations together
and using them to use
earthquakes to kind of take
an MRI of the Earth,
a CAT scan as it were.
And when we started to
get images of the Earth,
it didn't look like that all.
And then the space images of
Earth and space measurements
of the distance from
the Earth to the sun
and the mass of
the Earth, things
just didn't seem to line
up with that theory.
So it called into
question a lot of that
what we call planetary
core geology.
And so many questions
that it really
began to put weight
into the hypothesis
that planets might
form as hollow spheres.
>>NOORY: Now what would be
holding the core in its place
so it doesn't drop down to
the bottom of the planet?
>>AGNEW: Well, its magnetism.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>AGNEW: And really.
>>NOORY: Is it like
floating down there?
>>AGNEW: Well, the last
two years, we-- not we, not
my team, but they discovered
that the core of the Earth
is actually a
solid iron crystal.
They know this because
it's anisotropic, that is
to say it has grain to it.
It's not molten at all.
Its perhaps 13 or 14 grams
or cubic centimeters.
>>NOORY: Is it like a little
planet within the planet?
>>AGNEW: Yeah, very,
very dense, one piece
of iron in the center.
Now, if it's spinning at the
original speed of the planet,
then the crust has
expanded and slowed
down-- the conservation
of momentum.
That means that there's
a counter rotation
between a solid iron core and
a multi-metal, silica crust,
which would make
a great generator.
>>NOORY: Well that's amazing.
Yeah, it's like a
power plant, isn't it?
>>AGNEW: Right.
But some planets, like
Mars, have no magnetosphere.
So it's possible they
don't have a core
or that the core and the crust
are rotating at the same speed.
>>NOORY: Are you a dead
planet without a core?
>>AGNEW: I would think on
the surface you would be,
because the sun puts out a
broad range of frequencies.
Some of those are not
conducive to life.
They break apart DNA.
So it would literally sterilize
the surface of the planet.
You'd have to have some
way to route those higher
frequencies around the planet.
And that's why you would
have to have a core.
>>NOORY: How deep
would the mantle
be before you would,
let's say, bust through,
if you were drilling, and
then you would hit emptiness?
>>AGNEW: The theory is
that the crust is actually
around 900 to 1,000 miles thick.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>AGNEW: Now, you say drilling.
The deepest hole ever
drilled is about eight miles.
Just, just.
>>>>NOORY: Was that by
the Soviets at the time?
>>AGNEW: Right.
Exactly.
Those very deep holes.
And they're-- they're
still drilling them,
but it's very slow progress.
You're holding on to eight
miles of steel in that hole.
>>NOORY: So it's not like you're
going to bust through and hit
the--
>>AGNEW: Not at eight miles.
>>NOORY: --center of the planet?
>>AGNEW: No.
So the center of the crust,
although it may be solid on top
and may be solid on
the inside, is probably
a lot of fluid magma.
Because that crust is
undulating all the time,
with the tidal
gravity from the moon
and other gravitational
bodies in space.
>>NOORY: Brooks, in
the movie, "Journey
to the Center of the Earth,"
once they got into the center,
there was an ocean,
there was sun-like area,
where there was like a
little tiny star there.
What would our center
of the Earth look like?
And is there any life there?
>>AGNEW: Two really
great questions.
The iron core is expected to
be somewhere around 11,000
degrees, which is
a little hotter
than the surface of the sun.
>>NOORY: That's hot.
>>AGNEW: Whether or
not it would put off
light that would be conducive
to photosynthetic activity
remains to be seen.
Iron doesn't emit light
in that wavelength.
We see it in light
bulbs, but it's not
really conducive to
growing big plants.
The idea that there's
life inside the planet--
I will say this as a scientist.
Earth is prolific.
If there is a void anywhere, in
the crust or beneath the crust,
there will be life there.
It might be microbial.
>>NOORY: It might
be creatures, right?
>>AGNEW: It might
be more complex.
It would certainly be
different living conditions
than the surface.
>>NOORY: Historically, we
have heard stories and myths
of UFOs, unidentified
objects that
seem to be going inside holes
in the planet and out again.
So assume for a moment what
they see is actually that.
That tells me that there could
be an entire civilization down
there, if possible.
>>AGNEW: Most of the ocean,
except from satellite,
is unexplored.
We sail on seaways, like
roads, between countries.
We use it for commerce, not
much for exploration anymore.
In fact, the areas above
the 60th or 70th parallel
are very, very
seldom are sailed.
Above the 80th parallel, you
don't see any ships at all.
There are just areas of the
Earth man has not seen yet.
>>NOORY: I mean how possible
is it that there are actually
creatures, intelligent
life down there-- cities?
>>AGNEW: Well, you access
the little boy in me, too,
when you ask those questions.
>>NOORY: I love that.
>>AGNEW: As a scientist,
I can't rule anything out.
But I also have
to be reasonable.
I can't say that there's another
seven billion people living
on the inside of the planet
or other kinds of creatures.
But it's a cinch that all the
UFO sightings that we have
around the world
cannot be wrong.
Somebody is living
here besides us.
>>NOORY: The Hopi Indians
have talked about ant people.
To me an ant person is something
that lives underground, right?
>>AGNEW: That would be
the kind of structure
you'd have to have to
live beneath the Earth.
>>NOORY: So maybe.
Maybe.
What's science doing
about it, Brooks?
And what's going on in terms of
investigations or expeditions
to find out if this
is real or not?
>>AGNEW: Well, that's
actually the fun part.
There are several universities--
Washington University did
a study where they took
all of the seismograms--
these are the printouts that
have been generated by all
the US Geological Surveys
around the planet--
and they decided to
crunch all that data.
And when they did
that, they found
damping waves of another ocean
underneath the Atlantic Ocean.
>>NOORY: Aha.
>>AGNEW: The same kind of
waves like the waves crashing
on a beach.
So it was such a
stunning article,
and it was really
a great finding.
I spoke to the people at
Washington University,
and they were excited
about the study.
They stood behind it.
They said it's not
just wet ground.
We're talking an open sea--
>>NOORY: Huge.
>>AGNEW: --underneath
the Atlantic Ocean,
perhaps as big as
the Atlantic Ocean.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
>>AGNEW: It is.
>>NOORY: How in the heck did
that much water get down there?
>>AGNEW: Well, if the crust is
what we think it is or the way
this theory is, that
the crust actually
has part of the
mass of the Earth
and the core has part of the
mass of the Earth, the crust
itself will have gravitational
fields on the surface, which
is where we are,
and on the inside.
Although Newton's theory
seems to refute that.
His thin-shell physics
are just extrapolated
to make thick-shell physics.
So there could be flaws in it.
It could be that
the crust actually
has its own gravitational field.
The core has its own
gravitational field.
>>NOORY: Truly amazing.
If there's an ocean
down there, there
could be life,
sea life at least.
>>AGNEW: If there's
liquid water there,
there absolutely will be life.
>>NOORY: I just saw a
report, a few months ago,
that there could be another
planet within the planet,
like as the planet was shaped.
So maybe it is hollow.
But that there could
be two planets, one
on top of the other.
>>AGNEW: It makes
magnetic sense.
I always found it amusing.
A few years ago, they
released a statement
that Pluto was no longer
considered a planet,
because it was hollow.
>>NOORY: A planetoid, right?
>>AGNEW: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And how
did they determine
that it was so hollow?
>>AGNEW: Just satellite
measurements of it.
They determined that
it was hollow based
on its orbit and the
light that it gives off,
the heat that it gives off.
They were able to determine
that it was hollow.
>>NOORY: Do you
think in the Arctic
that there is literally a
hole, and, if you looked
at it from space, you would
see like a doughnut-type hole?
>>AGNEW: If the aperture is that
big, 80, 100, 200 miles across,
and it's filled with water
or almost filled with water,
you should be able
to see it from space.
The problem-- there
are two problems.
One is that we don't get
satellite information
above a certain parallel due
to, I believe it was 2006,
the Data Denial Act was passed.
>>NOORY: What the heck is that?
>>AGNEW: It's an agreement
between Eumetsat, which
is the European version
of NOAA, and the NOAA.
They decided to not
release to the public
any images above
the 60th parallel.
>>NOORY: That's strange.
What are they hiding?
>>AGNEW: Well, the theory is,
at least if you read the act,
that there is a reasonable
suspicion that that imagery is
so good that it would
provide tracking or pathway
information to
enemies who might want
to attack either Europe or
the US with cruise missiles.
So they did not release
the imaging data.
Still, the fact that there
are no pictures at all--
Google it yourself, there's
just no photographs of Earth.
>>NOORY: That's bizarre.
>>AGNEW: Google Earth
is largely animated
above the 60th parallel.
>>NOORY: It's as if
they're hiding something.
>>AGNEW: It sure
makes us suspicious.
We like the, we
like the daylight.
We want to shine the
light on the evidence.
>>NOORY: Now what
about expeditions
to go there and see
if that's possible?
>>AGNEW: We mounted
an expedition.
I became part of it in 2006.
It turned out to be
a very large project.
We needed a long, 450-foot
long Russian ice breaker.
We needed some international
agreements, which we got.
We needed a good
science team, so we
got Stanford, MIT, Washington
University, as I mentioned,
and some historians to make
up the 100 person crew.
We started to put a
business plan together.
And we had one of the worst
economies in my lifetime, 2008.
>>NOORY: Oh, yes, you got it.
>>AGNEW: And that
sunk the whole thing.
So it-- it was not a matter
of going inside the Earth.
It was a matter of going to
get data that we did not have,
to take floor samples off
the bottom of the sea.
We had a tectonic plate expert
from Stanford University
coming.
We were going to take Earth
magnetism measurements.
We were going to measure
the curvature of the ocean
to see if this oceanic
depression could actually
be mapped.
It was some serious science
that was going to be done.
It would've answered
a lot of questions.
>>NOORY: When Jules
Verne wrote "Journey
to the Center of the Earth,"
how did he know this?
Now, let's give him credit
that maybe he was creative.
And it was a novel.
But I mean, it's pretty striking
that what he wrote in that book
is pretty darn
similar to the things
you've been trying
to investigate.
>>AGNEW: It is.
I would say he made it up.
But look at all the historical
evidence that was there.
There are legends
in every country's
major religious writings
or historical documents
that there was activity
going on under the Earth.
So it was a natural
iteration for him.
But Jules Verne was
absolutely a visionary.
"20,000 Leagues Under the
Sea," "Journey to the Moon,"
all of those things
that Jules Verne saw,
we did-- except that one.
>>NOORY: What happens next?
How do we get to see if this
is indeed a real theory?
>>AGNEW: Earth doesn't
always cooperate.
In 2007, there was a
state-sized piece of ice
that broke off the Arctic.
It was a strange
weather pattern.
>>NOORY: Huge.
>>AGNEW: It was a wind that
blew for a period of weeks,
and it just stressed the ice.
And in Arctic terms,
we call it calving.
It calved a piece of ice off.
And it opened the
Northwest Passage
to the sea for the first time
in-- we don't know-- probably
200,000 years.
So we had a window there
of about two years,
we could sail in there
in the summertime
and actually do some
good mapping, maybe
15,000 18,000 square
miles in a couple weeks.
But that has since re-iced over.
It's now covered with
about five meters of ice.
And the Arctic is
growing very rapidly now.
>>NOORY: I want you
to speculate on this.
Tell us-- let's assume the
hollow Earth theory is correct.
And you're in this ship
going to look for it.
Tell us what's happening
as you approach this hole.
And what's going on?
>>AGNEW: Well, we had a
lot of meetings about that,
a lot of brainstorming sessions.
We have 100 scientists.
And some of them
historians, some of them
believers, which in science
you really can't believe.
You have to go for evidence.
>>NOORY: You have
to have the facts.
>>AGNEW: You've got to have
the drive to look for them.
But if you find something that
disproves your hypothesis,
you need to report that.
So this is the mindset of the
people that were in this group.
But we're on a ship.
There's no rescue.
There's no extension cord.
There's no going
back for supplies.
>>NOORY: You're on your own.
>>AGNEW: No one is
coming to get you.
So there is that
isolation, like we're
somewhere between Earth
and Mars kind of feeling.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>AGNEW: And the idea that
the crew and that staff
are really the
only consciousness
anywhere for 500 miles
in any direction,
we're like a
consciousness beacon.
There was the feeling that, if
there is a civilization living
up there, under the sea or
inside the Earth, as we talked
about, maybe a population
of, let's call them,
ultra-terrestrials,
we would stick out
like a bright light in
the middle of a black sea.
So there was that thought.
What if-- you
know, we're getting
close to where they are--
they come up to see us?
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>AGNEW: Then what do we do?
>>NOORY: Are you ready for that?
>>AGNEW: Sure, because, you
know, there's no like, oh,
hold on while I go get this.
You have to take
everything with you.
>>NOORY: And are
they friendly or not?
>>AGNEW: Yeah.
Well, that's the other thing.
It's a Russian,
nuclear-powered ice-breaker
but there are no weapons on it.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>AGNEW: But we were going to
film not only in visible light
but also in IR.
And someone asked, why
are we filming in IR?
I said because some technology
out there lets them bend light.
You can't see things visibly,
but they show up easy with IR.
We had a photographer who used
to literally tape two cameras
together, filming the
same thing, one in IR,
one in visible.
And it was phenomenal.
Things that you
could see in infrared
you could not see in visible.
>>NOORY: You couldn't see.
>>AGNEW: No, not at all.
>>NOORY: So as you
go into the hole,
do you even know
you're in the hole?
>>AGNEW: We would know because
the ship would be equipped
with a precision
gyroscope, similar to what
would be used to aim missiles.
>>NOORY: So you'd see a
curvature change or something
like that.
>>AGNEW: Right.
The horizon in the ship would be
stable to itself not the Earth.
So it wouldn't be gravity
giving us that horizon,
it would actually
be the gyroscope.
So if we began to over
rotate, beyond the distance
that we're actually
traveling across the sea,
we would know we were sailing
into that oceanic depression.
>>NOORY: At what
point do you stop?
I mean, how far down would
it go in terms of a hole?
>>AGNEW: The plan was to go
in the peak of summer, which
the sun does not set up there.
It goes around you,
like 360 degrees.
>>NOORY: So you'd have light.
>>AGNEW: Correct.
Once the sun started to
dip below the horizon,
we would know we
were sailing in.
That's the point where you stop.
>>NOORY: I'm trying to
visualize this, Brooks.
And the ocean would
keep going in, right?
Would come back out like that?
>>AGNEW: Not till
it went all the way
around the inside of
the crust and you'd
come out on the South Pole.
>>NOORY: Huh?
>>AGNEW: It's interesting
to read the old maritime
records, you know, before
there was a radar and all that.
Ships did not get out
of sight of the shore.
They sailed along
the shorelines.
But then they got brave enough
to sail out over the ocean.
And they didn't fall off
the edge of the world.
They reached other continents.
But they used to sail
together, in groups.
And they would sail
far enough apart
that they wouldn't run into each
other, if they run into fog,
but close enough where
they could come to one
another's aid.
And the maritime logs are
interesting, that they actually
see the other ship disappear,
for like a day at a time,
and then it comes
right back up again.
>>NOORY: There you go.
>>AGNEW: So it's sailing into
these low places in the sea.
And I interviewed an
admiral from the Navy.
And he calls those the
oceanic depressions.
And I asked him, why do
you think those happen?
He said, they might be areas of
the Earth where the gravity is,
you know, stronger, and it
just pulls the sea down.
I said, well, that's
an interesting take.
>>NOORY: Huh?
>>AGNEW: What if it was an
area where gravity was actually
very low, and it was this
surrounding gravity that
pulled the water
away from that point?
He said, that's
very interesting.
I never thought about that.
If there was an opening,
that's exactly--
>>NOORY: That's
what would happen
>>AGNEW: --the kind of
phenomenon you would see.
>>NOORY: And then that curvature
would be ever so slight.
See, I sometimes--
I'm trying to picture.
You'd get to the
top of the opening,
and you'd like fall in.
It's not that way at all, is it?
It's very gradual?
>>AGNEW: No.
When you're on the
sea, at six feet high,
you have a view
eight miles away.
The earth curves away,
So if you have a
100 mile opening,
you'll never see that curvature.
>>NOORY: Ever.
What happens next?
Does anybody try to go in there?
>>AGNEW: Well, there have
been several that have tried.
In fact, the guy
that patented it
died from pneumonia
trying to do it.
And let's see, Edmond
Halley wrote about in 1629.
Now, if we're going
to do this, it's
got to be done either by air,
by probably lighter than air
craft, if we get the
winds to cooperate.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>AGNEW: That's probably
going to be the way to do it.
So many people have
been doing these close
to space shots with
these GoPro cameras.
It's fascinating stuff.
Even high school
kids are doing it.
We thought about mounting some
different altitude balloons
and letting them go over and
see what we can see that way.
>>NOORY: Admiral Byrd claimed
that he met intelligent beings
in this hollow Earth, that he
was greeted by it, that he saw
strange animals, the
vegetation that you mentioned.
How could he make that up
if it was just a story?
>>AGNEW: Well, it's possible
he didn't make it up.
It's possible that someone
made it up for him.
I read what was
supposedly his diary.
We have-- we classify
all the data.
And these things are what
we call personal testimony.
Or it's factual,
because they actually
made a direct observation.
But you've got to put it
into personal testimony.
There's no leaf, there's
no rock, there's no bone,
or a picture or
something to back it up.
You don't throw
it out altogether.
But you start to
classify that and look
for similar items
in those to see
if there's things that
need to be investigated
or samples that
need to be gathered.
So I put that whole diary in
the area of personal testimony.
And I really did not
give it much credence.
I watched several documentaries
with Admiral Byrd,
and he did not seem like
that kind of person.
He had an almost military
explorer kind of vocabulary.
>>NOORY: No nonsense type.
>>AGNEW: He was
an ultra-patriot.
If the government asked him
to keep something secret,
he would take it to his grave.
>>NOORY: In your opinion,
is the planet hollow?
>>AGNEW: In my opinion,
there's enough question
to say it's possible.
It's possible.
>>NOORY: If you were down there,
would you be able to get back?
>>AGNEW: Well, that's
a good question.
I really don't know.
I'd-- we really didn't have a
plan to take a nuclear-powered
ship under the
inside of the planet.
But there was a
helicopter on the ship.
We could take
excursions with that
to get further--
further information.
The idea behind the
entire expedition
was to be as open
as we could with it.
We were going to film
everything, 24 hours a day.
It would be a great reality
show if nothing else.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>AGNEW: 100 scientists from
all around the world trapped
on a boat, 500 miles
from everywhere.
That makes "Lost," you know,
look like a commercial.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>AGNEW: But the idea that--
that we would actually
meet something out
there, whether it's
from inside the Earth or under
the sea was so fascinating,
we just had to be
ready to do it.
It was frightening actually.
>>NOORY: If it's
real, why is NASA,
why is the government
not telling us?
What's so secret about this?
>>AGNEW: That always upsets us.
You know, we have
tax money that's
spent in these exploratory
organizations, JPL, NASA,
others.
And then when the data is
gathered, it's screened
or it's airbrushed
or it's withheld.
And you can make a statement
for national security reasons,
but people want to know.
And I'll tell you, George, I've
done science my whole life.
And I've never seen
a subject matter
that had a fan base, that had--
>>NOORY: Oh, my gosh,
it's got it all.
>>AGNEW: --enthusiasts
that were so passionate.
And it's amazing.
The idea of a hollow Earth isn't
just like going to the moon.
It bonds people.
They get emotional about it,
like its roots or something.
>>NOORY: Right.
It's almost religious.
>>AGNEW: It's very powerful.
Yeah.
It's very strong.
>>NOORY: And if there
are people down there,
intelligent beings,
maybe they've
been down there since the
beginning of time, I guess.
Maybe they, when
this planet evolved,
maybe that's where they were.
I would doubt that people from
the surface went down there.
I think they were
probably already there.
What do you think?
>>AGNEW: It could be.
I mean, in the
scriptures it says
that the 10 tribes
disappeared, and that they
will return one day
on a highway of ice.
It sounds like they'll be
coming out of the north.
In Egyptian writings,
there's a woman--
she goes by the name Amseti.
She's passed on now.
But her books were interesting.
And I held her manuscripts
of her Egyptian translations
into English in my hands, and
I photographed this one page
where it said that the
people of the day--
it was a great tragedy-- and
they escaped into the Earth.
That's what it says
in the translation.
>>NOORY: I love that.
So they could be there?
>>AGNEW: It's powerful stuff.
And we have also reports
that some of the Nazis,
after World War II.
>>NOORY: They were obsessed
with this, I think.
>>AGNEW: They were moving goods
down there using submarines.
And there are several
submarines unaccounted for.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>AGNEW: So it's quite possible.
>>NOORY: Why would
anybody want to live
in the center of the Earth?
>>AGNEW: Well, we were talking
earlier about the Goldilocks
zone.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>AGNEW: It is very rare.
For 25,000 light years
in every direction
we look, we have not
seen a planet like Earth.
>>NOORY: Like us, that's right.
>>AGNEW: Too cold, too hot.
If there are beings
on other worlds,
and statistically
it's reasonable,
they would probably live on
the inside of their planets.
This happens to be
one of the worlds
where you can live
on the outside.
>>NOORY: We're a rarity.
Brooks, thanks for being
on "Beyond Belief."
>>AGNEW: Thank you
very much, George.
>>NOORY: That's
exciting, isn't it?
Just to think that the
planet could be hollow
and that maybe
there are creatures
or human beings living
within the planet.
It does make you think.
On an upcoming episode
of "Beyond Belief,"
Dr. Brooks Agnew
will talk with us
about one of his new ventures.
It's exciting.
You don't want to miss it.
I'm George Noory and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]